   
OSS is one of the biggest examinations in Turkey as more and more people take it every year. If you want to go to a university you have to take this exam. It is mostly based on high school subjects. You can pass this test with a little effort. But if you desire to go to a prominent university in Turkey such as BU, METU, Bilkent, Sabanci, Koc, or ITU, you should study very hard even if you are a genius. OSS (University Entrance Examination in English) requires a sequence of stages that should be followed carefully.

First of all you need to make a decision about your field of study. There are four main fields: physical sciences, social sciences, equal-weight (Turkish + mathematics) and languages. Each department in university accepts students from one of these fields. To decide you ought to think about your job firstly. For instance, if you want to be an engineer, you must go to physical sciences. Or maybe you want to be a lawyer. Then you must choose equal-weight. It is really a very difficult decision that influences your life in many ways. So, choosing a field of study matching your personality and talents is the first thing to do.

Secondly comes the longest period of the preparation: studying. This can be done in different ways. You have alternatives such as studying on your own, taking courses, taking private lessons and so on. These are to raise your OSS scores, but you had better keep your high school grades high too, because they are added to the OSS score. It is a good idea to start studying early on. In this three year period, in the first year you learn new things and begin to get deeper into exam strategies, because this is not only an information based rivalry but also a tactical war. The test technique requires specific knowledge about eliminating alternatives, finding the right answer indirectly with the help of wrong ones, using time without wasting it etc. You are also expected to explore easier and more creative solutions to the problems in a limited time.

People get scared more and more as the exam draws closer. The trick is not to give up before the OSS. Go on studying and learn the final things. Finish your test books as far as you can. Actually it is better to relax for a few days. But after that you must get back to work until the end.

Finally, it is time to take the exam. It is no use being anxious; it does not mean your whole life. OSS cannot be an aim; it is only a device for getting a better education. Nevertheless, that does not decrease its importance. It works like a mirror, showing your studies, and most people get what they deserve. If you believe by heart that you have studied adequately, you are bound to succeed.